


Old Dominion University - Wikipedia
document.documentElement.className = document.documentElement.className.replace( /(^|\s)client-nojs(\s|$)/, "$1client-js$2" );
(window.RLQ=window.RLQ||[]).push(function(){mw.config.set({"wgCanonicalNamespace":"","wgCanonicalSpecialPageName":false,"wgNamespaceNumber":0,"wgPageName":"Old_Dominion_University","wgTitle":"Old Dominion University","wgCurRevisionId":805471081,"wgRevisionId":805471081,"wgArticleId":308123,"wgIsArticle":true,"wgIsRedirect":false,"wgAction":"view","wgUserName":null,"wgUserGroups":["*"],"wgCategories":["Articles with a promotional tone from July 2016","All articles with a promotional tone","Pages using deprecated image syntax","Coordinates on Wikidata","All articles with unsourced statements","Articles with unsourced statements from July 2016","Old Dominion University","Universities and colleges in Virginia","Educational institutions established in 1930","Public universities","Universities and colleges accredited by the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools","Education in Norfolk, Virginia","Magnetic levitation","Distance education institutions","Tourist attractions in Norfolk, Virginia","1930 establishments in Virginia"],"wgBreakFrames":false,"wgPageContentLanguage":"en","wgPageContentModel":"wikitext","wgSeparatorTransformTable":["",""],"wgDigitTransformTable":["",""],"wgDefaultDateFormat":"dmy","wgMonthNames":["","January","February","March","April","May","June","July","August","September","October","November","December"],"wgMonthNamesShort":["","Jan","Feb","Mar","Apr","May","Jun","Jul","Aug","Sep","Oct","Nov","Dec"],"wgRelevantPageName":"Old_Dominion_University","wgRelevantArticleId":308123,"wgRequestId":"WeVx@ApAEK0AAE0epAIAAAAD","wgIsProbablyEditable":true,"wgRelevantPageIsProbablyEditable":true,"wgRestrictionEdit":[],"wgRestrictionMove":[],"wgFlaggedRevsParams":{"tags":{}},"wgStableRevisionId":null,"wgWikiEditorEnabledModules":{"toolbar":true,"preview":false,"publish":false},"wgBetaFeaturesFeatures":[],"wgMediaViewerOnClick":true,"wgMediaViewerEnabledByDefault":false,"wgPopupsShouldSendModuleToUser":false,"wgPopupsConflictsWithNavPopupGadget":false,"wgVisualEditor":{"pageLanguageCode":"en","pageLanguageDir":"ltr","pageVariantFallbacks":"en","usePageImages":true,"usePageDescriptions":true},"wgPreferredVariant":"en","wgMFExpandAllSectionsUserOption":false,"wgMFDisplayWikibaseDescriptions":{"search":true,"nearby":true,"watchlist":true,"tagline":false},"wgRelatedArticles":null,"wgRelatedArticlesUseCirrusSearch":true,"wgRelatedArticlesOnlyUseCirrusSearch":false,"wgULSCurrentAutonym":"English","wgNoticeProject":"wikipedia","wgCentralNoticeCookiesToDelete":[],"wgCentralNoticeCategoriesUsingLegacy":["Fundraising","fundraising"],"wgCategoryTreePageCategoryOptions":"{\"mode\":0,\"hideprefix\":20,\"showcount\":true,\"namespaces\":false}","wgCoordinates":{"lat":36.88654,"lon":-76.30522},"wgWikibaseItemId":"Q1474100","wgCentralAuthMobileDomain":false,"wgCodeMirrorEnabled":false,"wgVisualEditorToolbarScrollOffset":0,"wgVisualEditorUnsupportedEditParams":["undo","undoafter","veswitched"],"wgEditSubmitButtonLabelPublish":false});mw.loader.state({"ext.gadget.charinsert-styles":"ready","ext.globalCssJs.user.styles":"ready","ext.globalCssJs.site.styles":"ready","site.styles":"ready","noscript":"ready","user.styles":"ready","user":"ready","user.options":"ready","user.tokens":"loading","ext.math.styles":"ready","ext.cite.styles":"ready","mediawiki.page.gallery.styles":"ready","wikibase.client.init":"ready","ext.visualEditor.desktopArticleTarget.noscript":"ready","ext.uls.interlanguage":"ready","ext.wikimediaBadges":"ready","skins.vector.styles.experimental.print":"ready","mediawiki.legacy.shared":"ready","mediawiki.legacy.commonPrint":"ready","mediawiki.sectionAnchor":"ready","mediawiki.skinning.interface":"ready","skins.vector.styles":"ready","ext.globalCssJs.user":"ready","ext.globalCssJs.site":"ready"});mw.loader.implement("user.tokens@1dqfd7l",function ( $, jQuery, require, module ) {
mw.user.tokens.set({"editToken":"+\\","patrolToken":"+\\","watchToken":"+\\","csrfToken":"+\\"});/*@nomin*/

});mw.loader.load(["ext.math.scripts","ext.cite.a11y","site","mediawiki.page.startup","mediawiki.user","mediawiki.hidpi","mediawiki.page.ready","jquery.tablesorter","mediawiki.toc","mediawiki.searchSuggest","ext.gadget.teahouse","ext.gadget.ReferenceTooltips","ext.gadget.watchlist-notice","ext.gadget.DRN-wizard","ext.gadget.charinsert","ext.gadget.refToolbar","ext.gadget.extra-toolbar-buttons","ext.gadget.switcher","ext.centralauth.centralautologin","mmv.head","mmv.bootstrap.autostart","ext.visualEditor.desktopArticleTarget.init","ext.visualEditor.targetLoader","ext.eventLogging.subscriber","ext.wikimediaEvents","ext.navigationTiming","ext.uls.eventlogger","ext.uls.init","ext.uls.interface","ext.centralNotice.geoIP","ext.centralNotice.startUp","skins.vector.js"]);});





















 






Old Dominion University

From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia


					Jump to:					navigation, 					search







This article contains content that is written like an advertisement. Please help improve it by removing promotional content and inappropriate external links, and by adding encyclopedic content written from a neutral point of view. (July 2016) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)




Old Dominion University


University seal




Former names

Norfolk Division of the College of William and Mary (1930–1962)
Old Dominion College (1962–1969)


Motto
Idea Fusion[1]


Type
Public university
Research university
Space-grant
Sea-grant


Established
1930


Endowment
$213.7 million[2]


President
John R. Broderick



Academic staff

1,023


Students
25,000[3]


Undergraduates
19,612


Postgraduates
5,058


Location
Norfolk, Virginia, United States
36°53′12″N 76°18′19″W﻿ / ﻿36.88654°N 76.30522°W﻿ / 36.88654; -76.30522Coordinates: 36°53′12″N 76°18′19″W﻿ / ﻿36.88654°N 76.30522°W﻿ / 36.88654; -76.30522


Campus
Urban, 251 acres (102 ha)


Colors

Slate blue and silver[4]
         


Athletics
NCAA Division I – C-USA


Nickname
Monarchs


Affiliations
SURA
CUMU


Sports
18 varsity teams


Mascot
Big Blue


Website
www.odu.edu





Old Dominion University, also known as ODU, is a public, co-educational research university located in Norfolk, Virginia, United States, with two satellite campuses in the Hampton Roads area. It was established in 1930 as the Norfolk Division of the College of William & Mary and is now one of the largest universities in Virginia with an enrollment of 24,670 students for the 2014-2015 academic year. Its campus covers over 251 acres (1.02 km2) straddling the city neighborhoods of Larchmont, Highland Park, and Lambert's Point, approximately five miles (8.0 km) from Downtown Norfolk.
Old Dominion University is classified as a Carnegie Doctoral, Higher Research Activity University.[5] Old Dominion University provides nearly $2 billion annually to the regional economy.[6] The university offers 168 undergraduate and graduate degree programs to over 24,000 students and is one of the nation's largest providers of online distance learning courses. Old Dominion University has approximately 124,000 alumni in all 50 states and 67 countries. Old Dominion University derives its name from one of Virginia's state nicknames, "The Old Dominion", given to the state by King Charles II of England for remaining loyal to the crown during the English Civil War.



Contents


1 History

1.1 Presidents


2 Academics

2.1 Accreditation


3 Schools and Colleges

3.1 College of Arts and Letters
3.2 Strome College of Business
3.3 Darden College of Education
3.4 Batten College of Engineering and Technology
3.5 College of Health Sciences
3.6 College of Sciences
3.7 Distance learning


4 Research

4.1 Research at Old Dominion University
4.2 Climate Change and Sea Level Rise Initiative (CCSLRI)
4.3 Maritime Institute
4.4 Virginia Modeling, Analysis & Simulation Center (VMASC)


5 Campus

5.1 The Norfolk Campus
5.2 The University Libraries
5.3 University Village
5.4 Campus ministries
5.5 Maglev


6 Student life

6.1 Residential life
6.2 Student traditions
6.3 Student recreation
6.4 ROTC program
6.5 Student organizations
6.6 Greek life


7 Athletics

7.1 ODU-VCU rivalry
7.2 Men's basketball
7.3 Women's basketball
7.4 Monarch football
7.5 Men's soccer
7.6 Wrestling
7.7 Rowing
7.8 Cheerleading (co-ed)
7.9 The Old Dominion Athletic Foundation
7.10 Monarch Maniacs


8 Notable faculty
9 Notable alumni
10 References
11 External links



History[edit]




JAC Chandler


The foundations of Old Dominion University began in the minds of administrators and officials at the College of William and Mary in the first decades of the twentieth century. Notable among these men were Robert M. Hughes, a W&M Board of Visitors member from 1893–1917, and J.A.C. Chandler, the 18th president of that school.[7][8] In 1924 after becoming the director of the William and Mary extension in Norfolk, Joseph Healy began organizing classes and finding locations for faculty and staff. He along with the collective efforts of Robert M. Hughes, Dr. J.A.C. Chandler, and A.H. Foreman, a two-year branch division was established on March 13, 1930.[7][9] On September 12, 1930 the Norfolk Division of the College of William and Mary held their first class with 206 students (125 men and 81 women) in the old Larchmont School building which was an abandoned elementary school on Hampton Boulevard. On September 3, 1930 H. Edgar Timmerman becomes the Division's first director.[10]




Original sign from the Norfolk Division


"The Division," as it was affectionately called, which started out in the old Larchmont School building and allowed people with less means to attend a school of higher education for two years.[7] Tuition for the first year was 50 USD.[7] The following September, Virginia Polytechnic Institute, more commonly known as Virginia Tech, began offering classes at "The Division," expanding the number of courses taught.[7] Old Dominion began educating teachers and engineers. Created in the first year of the Great Depression, the college benefited from federal funding as part of President Franklin D. Roosevelt's New Deal.[7] The Public Works Administration provided funds for the Administration Building, now Rollins Hall, and Foreman Field, named after A.H Foreman, an early proponent of the college.[7] Lewis Warrington Webb first joined the faculty in 1932 as an instructor of engineering and would later be called "the Father of Old Dominion." After serving 10 years as an instructor at the Norfolk Division of the College of William and Mary, he was appointed Assistant Director in 1942. He also served as Director of the Defense and War Training Program at the college from 1940-1944. Through its defense and training classes, the Norfolk Division makes an invaluable contribution to the war effort. The program also allows the school to remain open during a period when most young men were serving their country. The program attracts many women, who learn aircraft repair, drafting and other war-related subjects. In 1946 Webb was appointed Director of the Norfolk Division. Dr. Webb's dream was to see the Norfolk Division become an independent institution. The two-year Norfolk Division rapidly evolved into a four-year institution, and he saw that dream fulfilled in 1962 when the Norfolk Division gained its independence from William and Mary. On February 16, 1962, the William and Mary system was dissolved under General Assembly legislation which was signed by Gov. Albertis S. Harrison. Later that year the Norfolk Division was renamed to the Old Dominion College.[9] Dr. Webb served as the first President of Old Dominion College from 1962-1969. Frank Batten, who was the publisher of The Virginian-Pilot and The Ledger-Star and member of the Norfolk Division's advisory board was chosen as the first rector of Old Dominion College on May 27, 1962. He held the position of rector until 1970 and the College of Engineering was named in his honor in 2004. In 1964 the first students lived on campus in the first dormitories, Rodgers and Gresham hall which were names after members of the advisory board. In 1969 Old Dominion College transitioned to Old Dominion University under the leadership of President James L. Bugg, Jr. During Bugg's tenure the first doctoral programs were established along with a university-wide governance structure in which faculty, administrators and students were represented. Bugg also re-established the Army ROTC program that was originally created in 1948 but was abandoned because of the outbreak of the Korean War.[11][12]




Old Larchmont School Building were the first classes were held


In the 1970s, during the tenure of President Alfred B. Rollins Jr. Old Dominion began mutual partnerships between regional organizations such as NASA, the U.S. Navy, Eastern Virginia Medical School and Norfolk State University. This was a result of Dr. Rollins goal of becoming the leading educational institution in the Hampton Roads area. Under Rollins, the university expanded its state and private funding, improved student services and introduced an honors program along with many other improvements to the university. In 1971 the university established its own campus police force and hired several police officers to patrol the campus. 1977 the Virginia Campus Police Act was made into a law, the university helped train local and campus police officers and the campus police officers were given full police authority on and around the campus grounds.[13]
From these humble beginnings the college grew southward along Hampton Boulevard, turning an empty field into a sprawling campus. After completion at the Norfolk Division, students would move on to schools offering degrees or would seek careers locally. "The Division" began by educating teachers and engineers. In 1962, it became an autonomous four-year college under the name Old Dominion College. Considerable growth in enrollment, the expansion of research facilities and preparation for the addition of graduate programs led the board to seek and receive university status in 1969.[7] Since this time, the university has continued to grow and now has an enrollment of over 24,000 students.[14]
Presidents[edit]




Current President John R. Broderick




Directors and Presidents[10][15]


Name
Tenure


H. Edgar Timmerman
1930-1932


Edward L. Gwathmey
1932


William T. Hodges
1933-1941


Lewis W. Webb, Jr.†
1946–1969


James L. Bugg, Jr.
1969–1976


Alfred B. Rollins, Jr.
1976–1985


Joseph M. Marchello
1985–1988


William B. Spong, Jr.
1989–1990


James V. Koch
1990–2001


Roseann Runte
2001–2008


John R. Broderick
2008–present


† – Webb was the Director of Norfolk Division of the College of William and Mary from 1946–1962.


Academics[edit]


University rankings


National


Forbes[17]
551


U.S. News & World Report[18]
210


Washington Monthly[19]
141[16]


Global


Times[20]
351-400


As a comprehensive university, Old Dominion University offers and develops liberal arts, science, technology and professional programs. The university offers 73 bachelor's degrees in various fields and 60 master's and 35 doctoral degrees.[21] ODU's TELETECHNET distance learning program is one of the nation's largest and accounts for nearly one third of student enrollment. ODU Distance Learning is affiliated with the Southern Regional Education Board's Electronic Campus. ODU is one of the few universities in the US to offer MBA concentrations in Maritime, Transportation, and Port Logistics Management and also has well-respected programs in Marine Science, Coastal and Transportation Engineering.[22]
Because Hampton Roads is a major international maritime and commerce center, the university has a special mission for the Commonwealth of Virginia in commerce, and in international affairs and cultures. With the principal marine and aerospace activities of the Commonwealth concentrated in Hampton Roads, the university has a significant commitment to science, engineering and technology, specifically in marine science, aerospace and other fields of major importance to the region. Many departments conduct cooperative research with NASA. Due to its location in a large metropolitan area, Old Dominion University places particular emphasis on urban issues, including education and health care, and on fine and performing arts.[21]
Accreditation[edit]
Old Dominion University is accredited by the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools Commission on Colleges (SACS/COC) to award baccalaureate, masters, education specialist, and doctoral degrees. The Batten College of Engineering and Technology is accredited by the Engineering Accreditation Commission of ABET. The Strome College of Business is AACSB accredited. The Darden College of Education, the College of Arts and Letters and the College of Sciences are accredited by National Council for Accreditation of Teacher Education.[citation needed]
Schools and Colleges[edit]
College of Arts and Letters[edit]




Batten Arts and Letters Building


This college maintains 15 departments and programs, which offer degrees in the Humanities, Arts, and Social Sciences. The departments include Asian Studies, Art, Communications and Theater Arts, English, Foreign Languages & Literatures, Gay Cultural Studies, International Studies, International Studies-Graduate Program (GPIS), Interdisciplinary Studies, Music, History, Philosophy and Religious Studies, Sociology and Criminal Justice, Political Science and Geography, and Women's Studies.
Within the Theatre Arts Department, Film and Video Studies is offered. The Department of Communication and Theatre Arts offers two degree programs that meet the needs of most students interested in film and video studies. The Program in Communication offers BA/BS degrees with an concentration in Film Studies. Classes focus on the principles and aesthetics of Film History, Theory, Genre, and Criticism. The Program in Theatre Arts offers a BA degree in Theatre with an emphasis in Digital Film making. Classes focus on all the practical aspects of digital filmmaking.[23] The Department of Music is housed in the Diehn Fine and Performing Arts building. Diehn is the home of the ODU Symphony Orchestra (ODUSO), Wind Ensemble, Concert Choir, Jazz Choir, Jazz Ensemble, Monarch Marching Band as well as other smaller ensembles like the Diehn String Quartet and Diehn Chorale. Students at ODU pursuing a degree in music have a choice of bachelor's degrees in music performance, music education, music history, and music. The Diehn building also houses the Wilson G. Chandler Recital Hall, where performances of the Diehn Concert Series and student recitals are held. ODU offers several tracks of study within the English Department, including: literature, journalism, creative writing, linguistics, and professional writing.
Strome College of Business[edit]
This college offers graduate programs as well as bachelor's degree programs in 11 departments, including School of Accountancy, Business Analytics, Department of Economics, Department of Finance, Information Technology & Decision Sciences, International Business, Department of Marketing, Department of Management, Maritime and Supply Chain Management, and the School of Public Service. The Strome College of Business also offers an MBA program as well as executive development programs.
In Summer 2010, a new Public Service minor was started with the motto, "The Minor that Matters."[citation needed]
In 2014, the college was renamed to the Strome College of Business after the Strome Family donated $11 million to the college.[24]
Darden College of Education[edit]
Offers undergraduate and graduate degrees in six academic departments.[25] Programs include: Educational Leadership and School Administration, Counseling, Human Services, Higher Education, Exercise Science, Athletic Training, Sport Management, Physical Education, Recreation and Tourism Studies, Early Childhood Education, Speech Pathology, Special Education, Fashion Merchandising, Instructional Design and Technology, Business and Industry Training, Community College Teaching, and Technology Education.[25] The Darden College of Education also works in collaboration with other academic Colleges to prepare teachers in fields of secondary education, such as English Education and Biology Education, among others. Students complete a major in the field they wish to teach, in addition to Education coursework, practica, and student teaching.[26]
Batten College of Engineering and Technology[edit]




Engineering Systems Building


Grants undergraduate and graduate degrees in 9 engineering disciplines, including Civil, Aerospace, Environmental, Electrical, Modeling and Simulation, Engineering Management, Computer, Mechanical, Systems, Biomedical Engineering and Engineering Technology and offers interesting concentrations, including Coastal Engineering, Transportation Engineering, Experimental Aeronautics, Laser and Plasma Engineering, Bioelectrics, Computational Engineering, and Ship Maintenance, Repair, and Operations. In 2010, the Frank Batten College of Engineering and Technology will become the first college in the United States offering all degrees in the emerging discipline of Modeling and Simulation (B.S., M.E., M.S., D.Eng., Ph.D.).[27]
In 2014, the College of Engineering opened the new Engineering Systems building which brought added laboratory, design and office space.
College of Health Sciences[edit]
This college is composed of five health-related schools and grants Certificates, Bachelor's Degrees, Master's Degrees, and Doctoral Degrees. The schools include the Schools of Medical Laboratory and Radiation Sciences, Community and Environmental Health, Nursing, Physical Therapy and the Gene W. Hirschfeld School of Dental Hygiene.




College of Sciences Building


College of Sciences[edit]
Offers degree programs in Chemistry and Biochemistry, Biological Sciences, Computer Science, Psychology, Mathematics, Physics, and Ocean, Earth and Atmospheric Sciences. The department of Ocean, Earth and Atmospheric Sciences has developed an expertise in the specialty field of Ocean Margin and Coastal System Processes.[citation needed] Also in the College of Sciences, the college offers a degree in Professional Communication, a combination of both Communication and Business.
Distance learning[edit]
Old Dominion University began offering distance learning courses in 1994 through TELETECHNET, a satellite delivery system.[28] Today, ODU offers 60 undergraduate and graduate programs through video streaming, satellite, 2-way, web conferencing, and online delivery.[29] Depending on the program, students may take classes online or by attending one of nearly 50 ODU partner locations in Virginia, Arizona, or Washington State.[30] ODU also offers programs designed to be taken by military personnel on deployment.[31]
Research[edit]






This article contains content that is written like an advertisement. Please help improve it by removing promotional content and inappropriate external links, and by adding encyclopedic content written from a neutral point of view. (July 2016) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)



Old Dominion University research teams generate $88 million in annual funding through more than 400 ongoing projects. Supported by grants from NSF, NIH, Department of Energy, and DOD, among others, have already made ground-breaking advances in several fields.
Research at Old Dominion University[edit]

Center for Advanced Engineering Environments
Climate Change and Sea Level Rise Initiative (CCSLRI)
Frank Reidy Research Center for Bioelectrics
Maritime Institute
Virginia Coastal Energy Research Consortium
Virginia Modeling, Analysis & Simulation Center (VMASC)

Climate Change and Sea Level Rise Initiative (CCSLRI)[edit]
ODU's Climate Change and Sea Level Rise Initiative (CCSLRI) has facilitated research and education in all aspects of climate change and alleged resulting sea level rise. Because of Old Dominion's unique location there is special emphasis on adaptation to increased flooding because of sea level rise. There are many other aspects of climate change affecting coastal cities such as public health or disaster preparedness that the initiative also addressed.
Maritime Institute[edit]
Old Dominion University's Maritime Institute was created through a University/Business community partnership in Hampton Roads. Its function is to provide maritime, ports and logistics management education, training and research to meet regional, national and international needs.
At the October, 2011 Annual meeting of the International Association of Maritime Economists (IAME) in Santiago (Chile), university rankings worldwide in port research for the period 1980-2009 were announced. In these rankings, ODU was ranked eighth in the world, second only to the University of Washington in the Western Hemisphere.[32]
Virginia Modeling, Analysis & Simulation Center (VMASC)[edit]




VMASC Facility


The Virginia Modeling, Analysis and Simulation Center (VMASC) is a university-wide multidisciplinary research center that emphasizes modeling, simulation, and visualization (MS&V) research, development and education.[33]
VMASC is one of the world's leading research centers for computer modeling, simulation, and visualization.[citation needed] The mission of the Center is to conduct collaborative MS&V research and development, provide expertise to government agencies and industry, and to promote Old Dominion University, Hampton Roads and Virginia as a center of MS&V activities. Annually, the Center conducts approximately $10M in funded research.
Old Dominion University is a state-assisted institution and one of only four Virginia schools in the Carnegie Research Universities (high research activity) category. The university offers a range of Modeling & Simulation degree options from Bachelor's to Ph.D.
The Hampton Roads region is home to the Joint and Coalition Training (JCW), the US Army's Training and Doctrine Command, the Military Transportation Management Command, NATO Allied Command Transformation, the Armed Forces Staff College, the U.S. Navy's Commander Operational Test and Evaluation Force, the Naval Sea Systems Command, and the Space and Naval Warfare Center. In addition, the Department of Energy's Jefferson Lab, NASA-Langley Research Center and numerous regional industries are important users of MS&V technology. The economic value of MS&V-related business activity in Hampton Roads is estimated to be over $500M.
VMASC concentrates on eight core modeling and simulation applied research areas: Transportation, Homeland Security and Military Defense, Virtual Environments, Social Sciences, Medicine & Health, Care, Game-based Learning, M&S Interoperability, System Sciences.
Campus[edit]
The Norfolk Campus[edit]
Old Dominion University has undergone extensive growth. The swell of new construction was kicked off in 2001 with the building of the Ted Constant Convocation Center. This 8,600 seat arena has become the home of both men's and women's basketball, as well as a premiere venue for concerts and other performances. The "Ted" as it is affectionately called by students and alumni is part of a $55 million 75-acre (30 ha) development known as The University Village.




Monarch Fountain during Homecoming


Student housing has grown at ODU. The Quad, a collection of six new residential buildings—Ireland House (2006), Virginia House (2007), Scotland House (2008), France House (2009), England House (2009), Dominion House (2009)—and offices brings Old Dominion University closer to its goal of becoming a more residential university. Constructed alongside the Quad is the new student Recreation and Wellness Center. The center offers intramural and extramurals for the students and staff. ODU has expanded its sports facilities, recently completing the Folkes-Stevens Indoor Tennis Center and the Powhatan Sports Complex,[34] a 48,000-square-foot (4,500 m2) facility that houses the intercollegiate athletic programs of field hockey, women's lacrosse, and football. Another football-related project was the renovation of Old Dominion University's historic Foreman Field for the sport's reintroduction in 2009.
Among the facilities are the fully automated Perry Library, laboratories in the sciences and engineering, the E.V. Williams Engineering and Computational Sciences Building, and the new Systems Research Building. The campus is also home to Pretlow Planetarium, the Lions Child Study Center, facilities for clinical work in the health sciences, a modern Oceanography and Physics Building, the Gornto TELETECHNET Center and the Diehn Fine and Performing Arts Center. Recent additions include the Student Success Center and Learning Commons, an orchid conservatory and research building, as well as renovation to the Technology Building and the Batten Arts and Letters Building.
In 2015, Old Dominion University started construction on the New Education Building and a new 45,000 sf student dining facility.[35]
The University Libraries[edit]




Patricia W. and J. Douglas Perry Library


The Old Dominion University Libraries are the Patricia W. and J. Douglas Perry Library, the F. Ludwig Diehn Composers Room, and the Elise N. Hofheimer Art Library. The libraries contain over 3 million items—books, government publications, journals and serials, microform, musical scores, recordings, and maps.[36] After months of renovation, the Perry Library first floor was transformed into The Learning Commons which opened in 2011.
University Village[edit]
Established in 1995, the Real Estate Foundation has taken the lead in the development of the University Village, a mixed use development including retail, residential and office buildings. The results of its work are visible to all in the form of the University Village Apartments, restaurants, shops, the North Village Parking Garage, the Innovation Research Park, Marriott SpringHill Suites Hotel, and Campus Bookstore.[37] Merchants Include: Perfectly Frank, Borjo Coffeehouse, Raising Cane's Chicken Fingers, Starbuck's, Sakura Sushi Bar, Tropical Smoothie Cafe, Zero's Subs, Recovery Sports Grill, La Herradura Restaurant, Mojo Bones, Insomnia Cookies, Jimmy John's.
Campus ministries[edit]
ODU students can join campus ministries which are coordinated by the University Chaplain's Association (UCA). Ministries include the United Methodist, Baptist, Roman Catholic, Episcopalian, Presbyterian and Lutheran denominationally sponsored ministries. InterVarsity Christian Fellowship has a presence at ODU and are members of the UCA. Each of these churches has a campus ministry presence at ODU, as does Hillel: The Foundation for Jewish Campus Life, and the Tidewater Islamic Center, which serves the Muslim community at ODU.
Maglev[edit]
In 1999, ODU agreed to work with American Maglev Technogies of Atlanta to construct an on-campus student transportation link of less than one mile—using a smart train / dumb track design in which most sensors, magnets, and computation were located on the train rather than the track.[38] With cost and safety concern, several other institutes of higher learning rejected the project. While projected to cost less to build per mile than existing systems, the ODU maglev was never operational. After depleting its $14 million budget, a groundbreaking was held in 2001, the project was completed in 2002; and the technology failed: the vehicle lost its "float" and come to a full friction stop on top of the rail, damaging much of the system. American Maglev and ODU dissolved their relationship and the project became an internal university research project.[39][40][41] In October 2006, the research team performed an unscheduled test of the car that went smoothly. The system was subsequently removed from the power grid for nearby construction.[42] In February 2009, the team retested the sled and was successful despite power outages on campus. ODU subsequently partnered with a Massachusetts-based company to test another maglev train. MagneMotion Inc. was expected to bring its prototype maglev vehicle, about the size of a van, to the campus to test in 2010.[43]
Student life[edit]
Residential life[edit]

Demographics of student body (Fall 2014)[44]

African American
26.2%


Native American
0.4%


Asian American
4.5%


Hispanic American
6.7%


Pacific Islander
0.5%


White American
52.7%


Mulit-race (not Hispanic/Latino)
5.6%


Other/Unknown
3.4%


ODU's current residential hall capacity is around 4,600 students in 14 dormitories or student apartments on campus. All freshmen are guaranteed housing, 77% of freshmen and 24% of all students live in college housing.[45]




Residence Halls on the Old Dominion Quad




Campus residence halls




Dominion House
England House
Foundation House
Gresham Main
Gresham East
Ireland House
Nusbaum
The ODU Inn
Powhatan Village
Rogers Main




Rogers East
Scotland House
Virginia House
Whitehurst



University Village Apartments

Chesapeake House
Hampton House
Newport News House
Poquoson House
Portsmouth House
Smithfield House
Suffolk House
Virginia Beach House
Williamsburg House




Student traditions[edit]




Old Dominion University Seal


Walking across the Old Dominion University seal is a rite of passage for graduating students on graduation day. Legend has it that undergraduates should never walk across the University Seal located on Kaufman Mall. Whoever does so will not graduate from Old Dominion in four years.[46]
Student recreation[edit]




Old Dominion University Student Recreation Center


The Student Recreation Center is located in the middle of the ODU campus adjacent to the Rosane Runte Quad. The facility includes: 15,000 sq. ft. Multi-Level Fitness Center with Strength, Cardio, and Free-Weights, Indoor Swimming Pool, Indoor Running Track, 3 Court Gymnasium, Multipurpose Court, 3 Group Exercise Studios, Cycling Studio, 3 Racquetball Courts,Pro Shop, Outdoor Adventure and Rental Center, Bike and Skate Shop and an Indoor Climbing Wall.[47]
The ODU Outdoor Adventure program allows students to take organized trips and participate in activities such as hiking, mountain biking, camping, surfing, yoga, rock climbing, snowboarding and skiing.
The University Fitness Center (UFC) was designed to accommodate Old Dominion's growing community. The UFC is located on Monarch Way between 42nd and 43rd Street and is equipped with user-friendly LifeFitness Cardio and Weight Machines.[48]
ROTC program[edit]
The ODU Army ROTC battalion was established in September 1969 in the Darden College of Education. The first cadets were commissioned on July 4, 1971. As of spring of 2008, ODU has been recognized as having the sixth largest Army ROTC unit out of 262 programs found nationwide.[49]
Its Navy ROTC program is run in conjunction with the neighboring campuses of Norfolk State University and Hampton University. The Hampton Roads Naval Reserve Officer Training Corps is one of the largest officer training battalions in the US, consisting of over 250 Sailors, Marines, and Midshipmen, with an above average prior enlisted presence.
Student organizations[edit]
Old Dominion University recognizes over 300 student organizations with over 8000 student members. These groups include professional organizations, honor societies, religious organizations, minority students, and groups for students with common interests and majors as well as a variety of traditional, multicultural, and professional sororities and fraternities. The Student Government Association has direct authority over student organizations.
Greek life[edit]
Old Dominion has a complex and diverse Greek system with fourteen fraternities and eleven sororities. Greek life is not active at Old Dominon, 6% of men are in fraternities and 5% of women are in sororities.There are also a wide variety of service fraternities active on campus.


NIC
PHC
NPHC
NMGC
Other


Kappa Sigma (F)
Zeta Tau Alpha (S)
Alpha Kappa Alpha (S)
Lambda Upsilon Lambda (F)
Alpha Phi Omega (Co Ed)


Kappa Delta Rho (F)
Pi Beta Phi (S)
Alpha Phi Alpha (F)
Mu Sigma Upsilon (S)
Alpha Kappa Psi (Co Ed)


Lambda Chi Alpha (F)
Alpha Phi (S)
Delta Sigma Theta (S)
Sigma Lambda Upsilon (S)
Theta Tau (Co Ed)


Phi Kappa Tau (F)
Alpha Xi Delta (S)
Iota Phi Theta (F)

Gamma Sigma Sigma (S)


Sigma Nu (F)
Delta Zeta (S)
Kappa Alpha Psi (F)

Sigma Alpha Iota (F)


Pi Kappa Alpha (F)
Kappa Delta (S)
Omega Psi Phi (F)




Sigma Phi Epsilon (F)
Sigma Sigma Sigma (S)
Phi Beta Sigma (F)




Tau Kappa Epsilon (F)

Sigma Gamma Rho (S)




Theta Chi (F)

Zeta Phi Beta (S)




Pi Kappa Phi (F)






Sigma Pi (F)






Phi Gamma Delta (F)






Kappa Alpha Order (F)






Athletics[edit]
Main article: Old Dominion Monarchs and Lady Monarchs
Old Dominion's 18 athletic teams are known as the Monarchs (men's teams, plus field hockey, women's lacrosse, and coed sailing) and Lady Monarchs (all other women's teams) and mostly compete in the NCAA Division I Conference USA (C-USA). Old Dominion University athletic teams have captured 28 team national championships and four individual titles. The school's best-known sports team is the Lady Monarchs basketball team, which has won three national championships in 1979 (AIAW), 1980 (AIAW) and 1985 (NCAA). The Lady Monarchs also made it to the 1997 Women's NCAA Championship Game, losing to Tennessee. ODU athletic teams have won a further 28 national championships including 15 in men's and women's sailing and 9 in women's field hockey. The Lady Monarchs' nine national titles in field hockey are in NCAA record books for most titles in that sport by the same school.
In addition, Old Dominion's athletic teams have captured 49 championships in the Colonial Athletic Association.
On March 2010, Dr. Wood Selig became the new athletic director. Previously, Dr. Selig was the athletic director at Western Kentucky.[50]
On May 17, 2012 Old Dominion announced it would move to C-USA on July 1, 2013. Four ODU sports which are not sponsored by C-USA have outside affiliations. In 2013, the Wrestling team became an associate of the Mid-American Conference[51] and the field hockey team joined the reconfigured Big East Conference.[52] The women's lacrosse team spent the 2014 season (played in the 2013–14 school year) as an independent before joining the Atlantic Sun Conference.[53] Finally, the women's rowing team joined the Big 12 Conference in 2014–15 after the Big 12 effectively took over C-USA rowing.[54] Most recently, the men's swimming and diving team, which was left without a conference affiliation for two years because C-USA sponsors the sport only for women, joined the Coastal Collegiate Swimming Association, later renamed the Coastal Collegiate Sports Association, effective with the 2015–16 season.[55]
ODU-VCU rivalry[edit]
Main article: VCU-ODU basketball rivalry
Virginia Commonwealth University is ODU's archrival, mainly because of the similarities between the two schools. Both schools were once part of the College of William and Mary and both are urban research universities located just 90 miles apart.[56]
Men's basketball[edit]
Main article: Old Dominion Monarchs basketball




Old Dominion's Ted Constant Convocation Center


The Old Dominion University Monarchs (men's) basketball team have captured six CAA championship titles (1992, 1995, 1997, 2005, 2010, and 2011) since their conference admission in 1992, which is the most among all CAA schools. In 2007, they received an at-large bid to the NCAA tournament, when the team went 24-8 and finished 37th in RPI. That season included a notable 13-point win at 8th ranked Georgetown. Their most recent trip to the NCAA tournament was with an automatic bid after capturing the 2010 CAA title. During the NCAA tournament, the 11th seeded Monarchs managed a 1-point first-round upset over the 6th seeded Fighting Irish of Notre Dame.
In 2002 ODU opened the Ted Constant Convocation Center for the 2002-2003 basketball season. "The Ted" has 8,600 fully cushioned seats, 16 luxury suites, and a state-of-the-art scoreboard. In addition to being used for home basketball games, the Constant Center hosts family-oriented events as well as concerts, lectures, and commencement ceremonies.
Women's basketball[edit]
Main article: Old Dominion Lady Monarchs basketball
Old Dominion also holds an important place in the history of women's collegiate athletics, having awarded the first athletic scholarship to any woman in the state of Virginia for a varsity sport when Nancy Lieberman was awarded a scholarship to play women's basketball.
The Old Dominion Lady Monarchs basketball team has won three national championships. In 1979 and 1980, the Lady Monarchs were AIAW Champions. In 1985, they captured the NCAA Division I National Championship with a 70-65 win over the University of Georgia. In addition, the Lady Monarchs have captured five Sun Belt conference championship titles (1983, 1984, 1985, 1987 and 1990), and captured 17 CAA championship titles, winning every year from 1991-92 to 2007–08.
Monarch football[edit]
Main article: Old Dominion Monarchs football
The history of football at ODU began with the Norfolk Division, which had a football team until 1941 known as the Norfolk Division Braves. The program dissolved due to a rule against freshman players and a $10,000 debt.[57]
On June 14, 2005, its Board of Visitors approved by a 14-0 vote the creation of an NCAA Division I team, which began play on September 5, 2009.
On February 9, 2007, ODU's Athletic Director Jim Jarrett announced that Bobby Wilder, the associate head football coach at the University of Maine, would be the head football coach at Old Dominion University. The team signed its first class in 2008. As is the case with many new football programs, all players on the 2008 Monarchs football team were redshirted, and when added with the 2009 signing class and transfers from I-A schools, formed the nucleus of the school's first football team. Initially, ODU competed as an FCS program (formerly I-AA), and was independent for two years before joining the Colonial Athletic Association for the 2011 season.
The final record for Old Dominion's 2009 football program was 9-2, at the time the best winning record ever for a first-year collegiate football program. This record is now held by Mercer University who finished 10-2 in 2013.[58] Old Dominion's football program had continued success in 2010 finishing 8-3. In the following years, Old Dominion's football program finished their 2011-2012 season with a 10-3 record, and an 11-2 record for their 2012-2013 season which gained national attention. As the school's football program began to grow along with the university itself, Old Dominion's potential was realized by several commissioners for college football, particularly by Conference USA. Old Dominion officially joined Conference USA (C-USA) on July 1, 2013 leaving behind their former conference affiliation with the Colonial Athletic Association (CAA).[59] They won their first C-USA game against Rice Owls on September 20, 2014.[60]
Foreman Field, formerly the field hockey and women's lacrosse teams' home venue, has been renovated to accommodate the new football program. Field Hockey and women's lacrosse teams have been relocated to the Powhatan Sports Complex.
As of the 2015 season the ODU football program has sold out every home game that has ever been played at Foreman Field, 48 consecutive sellouts.





Panoramic of the 2015 Old Dominion vs NC State football game


Men's soccer[edit]
Main article: Old Dominion Monarchs soccer
Wrestling[edit]
Old Dominion University Monarch Wrestling team was established in 1957. The school's departure from the CAA forced the Wrestling team to become an associate member of the Mid-American Conference, as Conference USA does not sponsor wrestling. The Old Dominion head wrestling coach is Steve Martin, currently in his tenth season with the program.[61]
Rowing[edit]
The ODU Rowing Club (ODURC) has been under the Recreational Sports department since 1985. The club is fully student-run and is funded largely by the student members of the club. ODURC has been very successful in recent years, as it has increased its membership. Adding outstanding volunteer coaches in recent years has raised the competitiveness of the team greatly, and the men's club won a national championship in May, 2008. Today, male and female rowers continue to compete as a club; in 2008 rowing also became a varsity sport for female students, and a full-time coach was hired for the new women's team. Within their first year at varsity level, the women's team placed at a national competition. The decision to elevate only the women's team to varsity status was made to keep ODU compliant with Title IX regulations, providing balance to the increased spending on men's athletics that a football program brought.[62]
Cheerleading (co-ed)[edit]
Led by head coach Carmen Harris, the Old Dominion University cheer squad is a safe, professional and athletic program. Its energetic team consists of athletes who are also students. The cheer squad, along with the Old Dominion Dynasty Dance Team, performs at all football home games as well as most football away games. They also perform at all Men and Women's Basketball home games, and occasionally a home soccer or baseball game. Along with their practices, games, competitions, and other events, ODU cheerleaders are required to actively participate in all fundraising efforts and volunteer work under their Spirit Squad Program.[63]
The Old Dominion Athletic Foundation[edit]
The Old Dominion Athletic Foundation (ODAF) is the official booster club for Old Dominion Athletics. the Old Dominion Athletic Foundation was previously known as the Big Blue Club, or The Old Dominion University Intercollegiate Foundation. The change from those to ODAF occurred March 1, 2011. The Old Dominion Athletic Foundation has an 501-C-3 designation as a non-profit organization.[64]
Monarch Maniacs[edit]
Monarch Maniacs was the student (undergraduates and graduates) group that supports all the athletic programs at Old Dominion University. The group is for students to show their school spirit and pride at all athletic events. The group is administered by the Office of Student Activities and Leadership. In order to become a member, there is a $20 membership fee and once paid, you receive benefits. All members receive a T-shirt, early entry to the football and basketball games, giveaways during the games, priority seating for selected away games, viewing parties and a membership card which allows discounts at sponsored vendors in Norfolk.[65]
Notable faculty[edit]


Name
Department
Notability
Reference


Mohammad Ataul Karim

A Bangladeshi American, known for his many original contributions in a number of different topics including biophysics, electro-optical displays, and optical computing.



G. William Whitehurst

Kaufman Lecturer in Public Affairs and professor of political science and history. Served as U.S. Representative for the Second District of Virginia from 1968 to 1987. He is the namesake for one of the residence halls at ODU on the Elizabeth River.



Ingo Heidbrink
History
Maritime Historian and Professor of History known for his various contributions to methodology of maritime history, fisheries history, and interdisciplinary cooperation. Heidbrink helds the office of Secretary General of the International Commission for Maritime History - the global umbrella organization for research in maritime histor, and is Co-President of the North Atlantic Fisheries History Association.



Mounir Laroussi
Electrical & Computer Engineering
Laroussi is a Tunisian scientist, and is known for his work in plasma science, especially low temperature plasmas and their biomedical applications. he published seminal papers on the interaction of low temperature plasmas with biological cells, to inactivate bacteria and proteins, to assist in wound healing, to destroy some types of cancer cells, and to play an active role in various other medical therapies. In 2009 the Institute of Electric and Electronics Engineers (IEEE) elevated Mounir Laroussi to the grade of Fellow for his important contributions to the biomedical applications of plasmas[3]. He was also awarded the inaugural achievement award from the International Society on Plasma Medicine in September 2010. Perhaps Mounir Laroussi's best known invention is a device called the Plasma Pencil. He served as an elected member of the Administrative Committee (2002–2005) and the Plasma Science and Applications Executive Committee (2005–2007) of the IEEE Nuclear and Plasma Sciences Society (NPSS). He has also served as a Guest Editor of the IEEE Transactions on Plasma Science, and of Plasma Processes and Polymers, a Wiley-VCH journal. Mounir Laroussi was the recipient of the IEEE Millennium Medal, 2000.



Mark Mostert
Associate professor of Special Education
Associate professor of Special Education at Old Dominion from 2000 - 2002. Professor, of Special Education at Regent University author and lecturer on Eugenics, Facilitated Communication and "useless eaters.



Notable alumni[edit]
Main article: List of Old Dominion University alumni







Ben Bailey









Kent Bazemore









Michael Bloomfield









Anne Donovan









William J. Fallon









Benjamin S. Griffin









Jay Harris









Oliver Purnell









Dave Twardzik









Justin Verlander









Nancy Lieberman




References[edit]


^ "News at Old Dominion University". Odu.edu. Retrieved 29 May 2015. 
^ "U.S. and Canadian Institutions Listed by Fiscal Year (FY) 2014 Endowment Market Value and Change* in Endowment Market Value from FY2013 to FY2014" (PDF). Nacubo.org. Retrieved 2016-05-06. 
^ "University Facts & Figures - Old Dominion University". Odu.edu. 2016-04-05. Retrieved 2016-05-06. 
^ "Color Palette & Fonts - Old Dominion University". Odu.edu. Retrieved 2016-02-01. 
^ "Old Dominion University : Idea Fusion : 2014 - 2019 Strategic Plan" (PDF). Odu.edu. Retrieved 2016-05-06. 
^ "Research & Impact - Old Dominion University". Odu.edu. Retrieved 2016-02-01. 
^ a b c d e f g h Rutyna, Richard A. & John W. Kuehl. Old Dominion University: Heritage and Horizons. Norfolk, Va. : Donning Co., 1987.
^ "ODU Libraries Exhibit - ODU 75th Anniversary - 2005". Lib.odu.edu. Retrieved 2016-05-06. 
^ a b "University History - Old Dominion University". Odu.edu. Retrieved 2016-02-01. 
^ a b "Annals of the College of William and Mary in Norfolk : The First Decade : 1930-1940" (PDF). Odu.edu (Revised ed.). Retrieved 2016-05-06. 
^ "James L. Bugg, Jr. - Old Dominion University". Odu.edu. 2013-05-23. Retrieved 2016-02-01. 
^ "75 Great Moments in ODU History - Old Dominion University". Odu.edu. Retrieved 2016-02-01. 
^ "Alfred B. Rollins, Jr. - Old Dominion University". Odu.edu. Retrieved 2016-02-01. 
^ "Undergraduate Statistics". Admissions.odu.edu. Retrieved 2012-02-18. 
^ "Past Presidents - Old Dominion University". Odu.edu. 2013-10-18. Retrieved 2016-02-01. 
^ "2014 National Universities Rankings". Washington Monthly. n.d. Retrieved May 26, 2015. 
^ "America's Top Colleges". Forbes. July 5, 2016. 
^ "Best Colleges 2017: National Universities Rankings". U.S. News & World Report. September 12, 2016. 
^ "2016 Rankings - National Universities". Washington Monthly. Retrieved September 6, 2016. 
^ "World University Rankings 2016-17". THE Education Ltd. Retrieved September 21, 2016. 
^ a b "Major Goals of the University" (PDF). Retrieved 2012-02-18. 
^ "OLD DOMINION UNIVERSITY (ODU) AT NORFOLK, VIRGINIA". EduMaritime.com. Retrieved 29 May 2015. 
^ "Degree Programs". Odu.edu. Retrieved 2011-10-05. 
^ "About the College - Old Dominion University". Odu.edu. Retrieved 2016-02-01. 
^ a b "Darden College of Education". Education.odu.edu. Retrieved 2014-08-15. 
^ "Majors & Programs | Undergraduate Admissions | Old Dominion University | Norfolk, VA". Admissions.odu.edu. Retrieved 2012-02-18. 
^ "Bachelor of Science in Modeling and Simulation Engineering". Eng.odu.edu. Retrieved 2012-02-18. 
^ "Right Where You Are - ODU Distance Learning". dl.odu.edu. Retrieved 2012-01-10. 
^ "Programs - ODU Distance Learning". dl.odu.edu. Retrieved 2012-01-10. 
^ "How It Works - ODU Distance Learning". dl.odu.edu. Retrieved 2012-01-10. 
^ "Military and Veterans - ODU Distance Learning". dl.odu.edu. Retrieved 2012-01-10. 
^ "Archived copy". Archived from the original on October 8, 2015. Retrieved February 27, 2015. 
^ "Virginia Modeling, Analysis & Simulation Center - Old Dominion University". Vmasc.odu.edu. 2016-04-27. Retrieved 2016-05-06. 
^ "Ground broken on ODU's $17 million Powhatan Sports Center | Sports | pilotonline.com". Hamptonroads.com. 2007-08-03. Retrieved 2016-05-06. 
^ "Capital Projects - Old Dominion University". Odu.edu. 2015-08-31. Retrieved 2016-02-01. 
^ "Archived copy". Archived from the original on May 30, 2015. Retrieved May 29, 2015. 
^ "Archived copy". Archived from the original on August 3, 2009. Retrieved November 30, 2009. 
^ Giusti, Michael (12 June 2002). "Maglev train makes tracks to Va". news-journalonline.org. 
^ "Maglev Development Project". Eng.odu.edu. Retrieved 2012-02-18. 
^ "The Student Voice: Will the Maglev Ever Run?". Dominion University. Retrieved 5 February 2007. 
^ "President Runte Comments On Status Of Maglev". Dominion College of Sciences Newsletter. Retrieved 5 February 2007. 
^ The Virginian Pilot. On The Move. 10 November 2006.
^ "ODU Scientists have Liftoff on Maglev Experiment". The Virginian Pilot. 18 February 2009. 
^ "Student Demographics". CSUF. 2014. Retrieved July 2, 2015. 
^ "Old Dominion University Overview - CollegeData College Profile". Collegedata.com. Retrieved 2016-02-01. 
^ "Campus Traditions - Old Dominion University". Odu.edu. Retrieved 2016-02-01. 
^ "Sports & Fitness - Old Dominion University". Odu.edu. 2015-12-21. Retrieved 2016-02-01. 
^ "University Village Fitness Center - Old Dominion University". Odu.edu. 2016-01-26. Retrieved 2016-02-01. 
^ Jones, Matthew (2008-03-30). "Ranks of ODU's Army ROTC swell to largest in its history". Hamptonroads.com. Retrieved 2012-02-18. 
^ Jon Gold, Ross Bjork named Western Kentucky University A.D., Los Angeles Daily News, March 12, 2010
^ "MAC adds wrestling members" (Press release). Mid-American Conference. September 19, 2012. Retrieved September 20, 2012. 
^ Ewart, Brian (May 1, 2013). "Temple Joins New Big East in Lacrosse, Field Hockey". VUHoops.com. SB Nation. Retrieved June 5, 2013. 
^ "A-Sun Welcomes Old Dominion As Women's Lacrosse Affiliate" (Press release). Atlantic Sun Conference. June 29, 2013. Retrieved July 2, 2013. 
^ "Big 12 Invites Affiliates to Rowing Championship" (Press release). Big 12 Conference. January 31, 2014. Retrieved June 12, 2014. 
^ "ODU Men's Swimming to Join the CCSA" (Press release). Old Dominion Monarchs and Lady Monarchs. July 16, 2015. Retrieved July 20, 2015. 
^ 21 Jan. "VCU/ODU: The Rivalry Is Just Different…". Caahoops.com. Retrieved 2012-02-18. 
^ "Special Section-75 Great Moments in ODU History". Odu.edu. Retrieved 2016-05-06. 
^ "Mercer Football Has Winningest Debut Season In NCAA Division I History". Gpb.org. 2013-11-25. Retrieved 2014-08-15. 
^ Fairbank, Dave. "ODU Makes Calculated Leap to Conference USA." Dailypress.com. Newport News Va., Daily Press, 17 May 2012. Web. 18 July 2013.
^ Barnett, Zach (2014-09-21). "Old Dominion, North Texas made Conference USA history on Saturday". College Football Talk. NBC Sports. Retrieved 2014-09-21. 
^ "ODU Athletics: Wrestling Team" (PDF). Old Dominion University Athletics. Retrieved 2014-01-01. 
^ "Odu Rowing Club Team Captures National Championship". Odu.edu. 2008-06-04. Retrieved 2012-02-18. 
^ "Archived copy". Archived from the original on March 25, 2012. Retrieved April 2, 2012. 
^ "Archived copy". Archived from the original on December 6, 2007. Retrieved January 15, 2008. 
^ "Monarch Maniacs". Studentaffairs.odu.edu. Retrieved 2012-02-18. 


External links[edit]

Official website
Old Dominion Athletics website







v
t
e


Old Dominion University




Located in: Norfolk, Virginia



Academics



Programs
Arts and Letters
Business
College of Education
College of Engineering and Technology
Health Sciences
Sciences


Miscellaneous
Center for Advanced Engineering Environments
Virginia Modeling, Analysis and Simulation Center





Athletics



Conference USA
Men's basketball
Women's basketball
Big Blue (Mascot)
Baseball
Bud Metheny Baseball Complex
Folkes-Stevens Indoor Tennis Center
Football
Men's soccer
Foreman Field
Monarchs and Lady Monarchs
Monarch Maniacs
ODU Fieldhouse
ODU Soccer Complex
Powhatan Sports Complex
Ted Constant Convocation Center





Grounds



Libraries
Patricia W. and J. Douglas Perry Library
F. Ludwig Diehn Composers Room
Elise N. Hofheimer Art Library
Robert M. Hughes Memorial Library


Campus
Growth
Images
Maglev system
Student Recreation
University Village





History



History
King Charles II
The College of William & Mary

The Colleges of William & Mary


Virginia Polytechnic Institute





Media



Monarch Magazine
The Mace & Crown
Monarch Vision
WODU





People



Alumni
Faculty





Student life



Greek life
ROTC
Rowing program
Organizations
Monarch Marching Band
Traditions








Founded: 1930
Students: 24,670
Endowment: 213.7 million
 Commons
 Category










Links to related articles











v
t
e


Colleges and universities in Virginia



Private



Appalachian College of Pharmacy
Appalachian School of Law
Art Institute of Virginia Beach
Art Institute of Washington
Atlantic University
Averett University
Baptist Theological Seminary at Richmond
Bluefield College
Bon Secours Memorial College of Nursing
Bridgewater College
Christendom College
Cordoba University
DeVry University
Eastern Mennonite University
ECPI University
Edward Via College of Osteopathic Medicine
Emory and Henry College
Ferrum College
George Washington University Virginia Campus
Hampden–Sydney College
Hampton University
Hartland College
Hollins University
Jefferson College of Health Sciences
John Leland Center for Theological Studies
Liberty University
Lynchburg College
Mary Baldwin University
Marymount University
Patrick Henry College
Randolph College
Randolph–Macon College
Regent University
Roanoke College
Shenandoah University
Southern Virginia University
Stratford University
Sweet Briar College
Union Theological Seminary & Presbyterian School of Christian Education
University of Management and Technology
University of the Potomac
University of Richmond
Virginia International University
Virginia Theological Seminary
Virginia Union University
Virginia University of Lynchburg
Virginia Wesleyan College
Washington and Lee University
Westwood College





Public



Christopher Newport University
College of William & Mary
Eastern Virginia Medical School
George Mason University
James Madison University
Joint Forces Staff College
Longwood University
Marine Corps University
Norfolk State University
Old Dominion University
Radford University
Richard Bland College
University of Mary Washington
University of Virginia
University of Virginia's College at Wise
Virginia Commonwealth University
Virginia Community College System
Virginia Military Institute
Virginia Polytechnic Institute and State University
Virginia State University
Virginia–Maryland Regional College of Veterinary Medicine





Defunct



Blackstone College for Girls
Elizabeth College
Frederick College
Gibbs College
Marion College
Saint Paul's College
Sullins College
University of Northern Virginia
Virginia Intermont College








Complete list












v
t
e


Southeastern Universities Research Association



Standard members



Alabama
UAB
UAHuntsville
Arkansas
Auburn
Baylor
Catholic
UCF
Christopher Newport
Clemson
Delaware
Duke
East Carolina
Florida
Florida Atlantic
Florida Tech
FIU
Florida State
George Mason
George Washington
Georgetown
Georgia
Georgia Tech
Georgia State
Hampton
Houston
James Madison
Kentucky
UL Lafayette
LSU
Louisiana Tech
Maryland
UMBC
MIT
Memphis
Miami
Ole Miss
Mississippi State
New Orleans
Norfolk State
North Carolina A&T
North Carolina
NC State
Oklahoma
Old Dominion
Regina
Rice
Richmond
South Carolina
South Florida
Southern Miss
Tennessee
Texas
Texas A&M
Tulane
Vanderbilt
Virginia
VCU
Virginia Tech
Virginia State
West Virginia
William & Mary





Affiliate members



Idaho State
Ohio












v
t
e


Conference USA



Full members



Charlotte 49ers
Florida Atlantic Owls
FIU Panthers
Louisiana Tech Bulldogs/Lady Techsters
Marshall Thundering Herd
Middle Tennessee Blue Raiders
North Texas Mean Green
Old Dominion Monarchs/Lady Monarchs
Rice Owls
Southern Miss Golden Eagles/Lady Eagles
UAB Blazers
UTEP Miners
UTSA Roadrunners
Western Kentucky Hilltoppers/Lady Toppers





Men's soccer affiliate members



Kentucky Wildcats
New Mexico Lobos
South Carolina Gamecocks





History



Metro Conference
Great Midwest Conference
2010–13 Conference USA realignment












v
t
e


Atlantic Sun Conference



Full members



Florida Gulf Coast Eagles
Jacksonville Dolphins
Kennesaw State Owls
Lipscomb Bisons
NJIT Highlanders
North Florida Ospreys
South Carolina Upstate Spartans
Stetson Hatters





Future member



North Alabama Lions (joining in 2018)





Women's lacrosse associates



Central Michigan Chippewas
Coastal Carolina Chanticleers
Delaware State Hornets
Detroit Titans
Furman Paladins
Howard Lady Bison
Kent State Golden Flashes (joining in 2018)
Mercer Bears
Old Dominion Monarchs
Wofford Terriers





Beach volleyball associates



Coastal Carolina Chanticleers
Mercer Bears












v
t
e


Big East Conference



Full
members



Butler Bulldogs
Creighton Bluejays
DePaul Blue Demons
Georgetown Hoyas
Marquette Golden Eagles
Providence Friars
St. John's Red Storm
Seton Hall Pirates
Villanova Wildcats
Xavier Musketeers





Associate
members



Cincinnati Bearcats (women's lacrosse; leaving in 2018)
Connecticut Huskies (field hockey, women's lacrosse; lacrosse leaving in 2018)
Denver Pioneers (men's lacrosse, women's lacrosse)
Florida Gators (women's lacrosse; leaving in 2018)
Liberty Lady Flames (field hockey)
Old Dominion Monarchs (field hockey)
Quinnipiac Bobcats (field hockey)
Temple Owls (field hockey, women's lacrosse; lacrosse leaving in 2018)
Vanderbilt Commodores (women's lacrosse; leaving in 2018)





History



Big East Conference (1979–2013)
2010–13 Big East realignment












v
t
e


Big 12 Conference



Full members



Baylor Bears and Lady Bears
Iowa State Cyclones
Kansas Jayhawks
Kansas State Wildcats
Oklahoma Sooners
Oklahoma State Cowboys and Cowgirls
TCU Horned Frogs
Texas Longhorns
Texas Tech Red Raiders and Lady Raiders
West Virginia Mountaineers








Associate members



Air Force Falcons (wrestling)
Alabama Crimson Tide (women's rowing)
Denver Pioneers (women's gymnastics)
Fresno State Bulldogs (wrestling)
North Dakota State Bison (wrestling)
Northern Colorado Bears (wrestling)
Northern Iowa Panthers (wrestling)
Old Dominion Lady Monarchs (women's rowing)
South Dakota State Jackrabbits (wrestling)
Tennessee Volunteers (women's rowing)
Utah Valley Wolverines (wrestling)
Wyoming Cowboys (wrestling)





Championships & awards



Conference champions
All-time football team





History



Big Eight Conference
Southwest Conference
1996 conference realignment
2010–13 Big 12 realignment












v
t
e


Coastal Collegiate Sports Association



men's
swimming & diving



Florida Atlantic Owls
Gardner–Webb Runnin' Bulldogs
Howard Bison
Incarnate Word Cardinals
NJIT Highlanders
Old Dominion Monarchs





women's
swimming & diving



Campbell Lady Camels
Florida Gulf Coast Eagles
Gardner–Webb Runnin' Bulldogs
Georgia Southern Eagles
Howard Lady Bison
Incarnate Word Cardinals
Liberty Lady Flames
UNC Asheville Bulldogs
North Florida Ospreys





beach
volleyball



Charleston Cougars
FIU Panthers
Florida Atlantic Owls
Florida State Seminoles
Georgia State Panthers
LSU Tigers
South Carolina Gamecocks
Tulane Green Wave
UAB Blazers
UNC Wilmington Seahawks












v
t
e


Mid-American Conference



East Division



Akron Zips
Bowling Green Falcons
Buffalo Bulls
Kent State Golden Flashes
Miami RedHawks
Ohio Bobcats





West Division



Ball State Cardinals
Central Michigan Chippewas
Eastern Michigan Eagles
Northern Illinois Huskies
Toledo Rockets
Western Michigan Broncos





Affiliates



Appalachian State Mountaineers (field hockey)
Binghamton Bearcats (men's tennis)
Evansville Purple Aces (men's swimming and diving)
Longwood Lancers (field hockey)
Missouri Tigers (wrestling)
Missouri State Bears (field hockey, men's swimming and diving)
Old Dominion Monarchs (wrestling)
SIU Edwardsville Cougars (men's soccer; wrestling joining in 2018)
Southern Illinois Salukis (men's swimming and diving)
West Virginia Mountaineers (men's soccer)





Seasons



1946–47
1947–48
1948–49
1949–50
1950–51
1951–52
1952–53
1953–54
1954–55
1955–56
1956–57
1957–58
1958–59
1959–60
1960–61
1961–62
1962–63
1963–64
1964–65
1965–66
1966–67
1967–68
1968–69
1969–70
1970–71
1971–72
1972–73
1973–74
1974–75
1975–76
1976–77
1977–78
1978–79
1979–80
1980–81
1981–82
1982–83
1983–84
1984–85
1985–86
1986–87
1987–88
1988–89
1989–90
1990–91
1991–92
1992–93
1993–94
1994–95
1995–96
1996–97
1997–98
1998–99
1999–00
2000–01
2001–02
2002–03
2003–04
2004–05
2005–06
2006–07
2007–08
2008–09
2009–10
2010–11
2011–12
2012–13
2013–14
2014–15
2015–16
2016–17
2017–18





Championships



Conference champions















 
						Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Old_Dominion_University&oldid=805471081"					
Categories: Old Dominion UniversityUniversities and colleges in VirginiaEducational institutions established in 1930Public universitiesUniversities and colleges accredited by the Southern Association of Colleges and SchoolsEducation in Norfolk, VirginiaMagnetic levitationDistance education institutionsTourist attractions in Norfolk, Virginia1930 establishments in VirginiaHidden categories: Articles with a promotional tone from July 2016All articles with a promotional tonePages using deprecated image syntaxCoordinates on WikidataAll articles with unsourced statementsArticles with unsourced statements from July 2016 



Navigation menu


Personal tools

Not logged inTalkContributionsCreate accountLog in 



Namespaces

Article
Talk




Variants









Views

Read
Edit
View history



More







Search



 







Navigation


Main pageContentsFeatured contentCurrent eventsRandom articleDonate to WikipediaWikipedia store 



Interaction


HelpAbout WikipediaCommunity portalRecent changesContact page 



Tools


What links hereRelated changesUpload fileSpecial pagesPermanent linkPage informationWikidata itemCite this page 



Print/export


Create a bookDownload as PDFPrintable version 



In other projects


Wikimedia Commons 



Languages


تۆرکجهDeutschEspañolفارسیFrançaisNederlandsNorskSimple English中文 
Edit links 





 This page was last edited on 15 October 2017, at 16:39.
Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License;
additional terms may apply.  By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.


Privacy policy
About Wikipedia
Disclaimers
Contact Wikipedia
Developers
Cookie statement
Mobile view



 

 



(window.RLQ=window.RLQ||[]).push(function(){mw.config.set({"wgPageParseReport":{"limitreport":{"cputime":"0.936","walltime":"1.115","ppvisitednodes":{"value":5022,"limit":1000000},"ppgeneratednodes":{"value":0,"limit":1500000},"postexpandincludesize":{"value":387740,"limit":2097152},"templateargumentsize":{"value":96522,"limit":2097152},"expansiondepth":{"value":12,"limit":40},"expensivefunctioncount":{"value":2,"limit":500},"entityaccesscount":{"value":1,"limit":400},"timingprofile":["100.00%  871.342      1 -total"," 43.01%  374.795      1 Template:Reflist"," 30.00%  261.441     55 Template:Cite_web"," 14.34%  124.979      1 Template:Infobox_university"," 12.83%  111.792      1 Template:Infobox"," 10.30%   89.760      9 Template:Navbox","  9.39%   81.813      1 Template:Navboxes","  6.15%   53.614      4 Template:Citation_needed","  5.59%   48.715      4 Template:Fix","  5.39%   46.955      1 Template:Old_Dominion_University"]},"scribunto":{"limitreport-timeusage":{"value":"0.473","limit":"10.000"},"limitreport-memusage":{"value":10184255,"limit":52428800}},"cachereport":{"origin":"mw1218","timestamp":"20171017025905","ttl":1900800,"transientcontent":false}}});});(window.RLQ=window.RLQ||[]).push(function(){mw.config.set({"wgBackendResponseTime":1221,"wgHostname":"mw1218"});});


